Release notes for 1.7.1 (#8111)
istio/istio.io: content/en/news/releases/1.7.x/announcing-1.7.1/index.md

---
title: Announcing Istio 1.7.1
linktitle: 1.7.1
subtitle: Patch Release
description: Istio 1.7.1 patch release.
publishdate: 2020-09-10
release: 1.7.1
aliases:
    - /news/announcing-1.7.1
---

This release contains bug fixes to improve robustness. This release note describes what’s different between Istio 1.7.0 and Istio 1.7.1

{{< relnote >}}

## Changes

- **Added** Envoy [ext `authz` and gRPC access log API support](https://github.com/istio/istio/wiki/Enabling-Envoy-Authorization-Service-and-gRPC-Access-Log-Service-With-Mixer) in Mixer,

> which makes Mixer based configuration and out of process adapter still work after upgrading to future version of Istio.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which makes Mixer based configuration and out of process adapter still work after upgrading to future versions of Istio.
```

  ([Issue #23580](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23580))

- **Fixed** the `istioctl x authz check` command to work properly with the v1beta1 AuthorizationPolicy.
  ([PR #26625](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/26625))

> - **Fixed** Remove unreachable endpoints for non-injected workloads across networks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** unreachable endpoints for non-injected workloads across networks by removing them.
```

  ([Issue #26517](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/26517))

- **Fixed** enabling hold application until proxy starts feature flag breaking rewriting application probe logic.
  ([Issue #26873](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/26873))

- **Fixed** deleting the remote-secret for multicluster installation removes remote endpoints.
  ([Issue #27187](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/27187))

- **Fixed** missing endpoints when Service is populated later than Endpoints.

> - **Fixed** any issue causing headless Service updates to be missed ([Issue #26617](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/26617)).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue causing headless Service updates to be missed ([Issue #26617](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/26617)).
```

---
title: Announcing Istio 1.7.1
linktitle: 1.7.1
subtitle: Patch Release
description: Istio 1.7.1 patch release.
publishdate: 2020-09-10
release: 1.7.1
aliases:
    - /news/announcing-1.7.1
---

This release contains bug fixes to improve robustness. This release note describes what’s different between Istio 1.7.0 and Istio 1.7.1

{{< relnote >}}

# Changes

> - **Added** Envoy [ext authz and gRPC access log API support](https://github.com/istio/istio/wiki/Enabling-Envoy-Authorization-Service-and-gRPC-Access-Log-Service-With-Mixer) in Mixer,

Reviewer 3: This seems odd to me as it's pointing to a wiki page and doesn't involve any code changes i.e. is there anything specific in 1.7.1 that unlocks this feature?

Author: @bianpengyuan

Reviewer 4: Performance testing, upgrade testing and small bug fixes unblocks this feature in 1.7.1.

Reviewer 3: So I guess It should say "Fixed" instead of "Added"?

Reviewer 4: Not really, we did not publish this in 1.7.0 release note, because I think performance and upgrade are requirements for a feature to release and they were not done in time.

Reviewer 3: I see, thanks for the clarification.

> - **Added** Envoy [ext authz and gRPC access log API support](https://github.com/istio/istio/wiki/Enabling-Envoy-Authorization-Service-and-gRPC-Access-Log-Service-With-Mixer) in Mixer,

Reviewer: You shouldn't use authz here, but expand it out and remove it from .spelling. If you want to use authz, you can surround it with single quotes to get around the spellcheck.

Author: I added single quotes to get around spellcheck. Thanks.

which makes Mixer based configuration and out of process adapter still work after upgrading to future version of Istio. 
  ([Issue #23580](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23580))

- **Fixed** Remove unreachable endpoints for non-injected workloads across networks.
  ([Issue #26517](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/26517))

> - **Fixed** HoldApplicationUntilProxyStarts breaks rewriteAppProbers.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** enabling hold application until proxy starts feature flag breaking rewriting application probe logic.
```

  ([Issue #26873](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/26873))

> - **Fixed** deleting the remote-secret for multicluster installation removes remote endpoints.

Reviewer 3: Is there a Github issue for this?

Author: @stevenctl could you attach a issue id for PR https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/26899, and add it to the release note?

Reviewer 5: I don't think there was an issue for this. I can retroactively create one if necessary.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** deleting the remote-secret for multicluster installation removes remote endpoints.
  ([Issue #27187](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/27187))
```

> - **Fixed** endpoint missed from eds when kubernetes service populated later than endpoints.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** missing endpoints when Service is populated later than Endpoints.
```

> - **Fixed** headless services endpoints update will not trigger any xds pushes for sidecar proxies

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** any issue causing headless Service updates to be missed ([Issue #26617](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/26617)).
```

  ([Issue #26617](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/26617))

- **Fixed** an issue with Kiali RBAC permissions which prevented its deployment from working properly.

>   ([Issue #27109](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/27109))

Reviewer 3: This issue is still open

Author: @dntosas @jmazzitelli shall we close the issue now?

Reviewer 7: yes, this looks like we can close that now.

> - **Fixed** remove-from-mesh does not remove the init containers when using Istio CNI

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue where `remove-from-mesh` did not remove the init containers when using Istio CNI
```

>   ([Issue #26938](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/26938))

Reviewer 2: It looks like 26938 is still open. Can this be closed? @esnible

Reviewer 8: Fixed in PR https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/26812 .  I will close Issue #26938

> 

Reviewer 9: can we add

```
**Fixed** the `istioctl x authz check` command to work properly with the v1beta1 AuthorizationPolicy.
([PR #26625](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/26625))
```

Reviewer 2: Generally, we try not to list PRs in release notes.

Reviewer 2: @yangminzhu is this is the issue for that? https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23526 looks like it's still open though...

Reviewer 9: it's open for further improvements, original bug is fixed

> ## Default auth strategy for Kiali switched to anonymous.

Reviewer 2: Should this be a note? Odd for us to have a separate headered section in our release notes.The sentence is also weird here as well.

Reviewer 2: Perhaps: 

**Fixed** Kiali to use anonymous authentication strategy since newer versions have removed the login authentication strategy.

Reviewer: I was going to say the sentence for this subject doesn't make sense.

> Newer versions of Kiali that are compatible with Istio 1.7+, removed login auth strategy so we moved to the updated default one.

Reviewer 3: This description is a bit confusing. I don't understand it else would have offered alternate text.
